In this video we're gonna start to implement those three different arrays.
We just discussed we're gonna first take care of the grid array.
I want to first begin by giving you just a very quick reminder on what the grid array does because there's
a very particular way that we're going to initialize it.
And if you don't really understand about the grid array does well a lot of stuff that we're going to
a right here is not gonna make a lot of sense.
So we're going to have one array called GRID and this is going to be a two dimensional array.
It'll be a 2D array and every value inside of it is going to start off as false.
The reason we're gonna start off is false.
Remember the purpose of the grid array is to record whether or not we have visited each individual cell.
So when we first initialize it that this thing is going to start off as a Judy array.
If this is the maze that we are going to be building then we're going to have three rows and three columns.
So here are my three rows.
I'm gonna have three columns inside and every element is going to start off as false.
So gonna put in an F for each one we're then going to pick a cell at random so maybe the first cell
that we pick is this one right here we would now say that we have visited the cell because where you
have essentially done some processing work on it because we have visited this we need to update our
grid array.
So going to find the element inside the grid array that corresponds to that cell.
So in this case would be that element right there.
So I going to take that false and I'm going to update it to be true instead we can then imagine that
we start to go through the R algorithm.
Remember the primary step in the algorithm is to take a look at all the different neighbors so that
one that one and that one and then pick one at random and visited.
So let's imagine I go off to the right like so and I'm now at this cell so I would now find the element
inside my grid array that corresponds to that cell.
It is this one right here so I would take that false remove it and update it to be true instead.
So that's the purpose of the grid array.
Let's just focus on creating this array first.
So at the end of the day what we really want is a two dimensional array that starts off with all false
values inside of it.
And if right now we're going to imagine that we are building a maze that has three rows and three columns.
So we're gonna hardcoded those three is in right now we're going to update those to be a lot more flexible
in just a moment so to get started.
I'm going to go back over to my code going to put a little comment header here that says maze generation
again just to guide myself through this file.
There's a couple of different ways we can create this grid array.
I'm going to first show you a very basic way normal refactoring into all the more fancy style.
So a very basic way to do this would be to define a grid array and then iterate using a double nested
for loop.
So I could say for let I equals zero less than three plus plus and I'll set up another for loop inside
their SO for let j equals zero J less than three J plus plus then in the outer loop I'm going to use
this to push in each individual row and then inside the inner loop I'm going to process each of those
rows and add in starting values of false.
So let's say grid at I not push false.
Like so then go into console log this I'll save this I'll go back over I'll do a quick test so as soon
as I reload I can see the console log right here I definitely have the correct start structure to start
off with so I've got false walls false falsely false and so on.
So this is definitely one way to approach this but anytime that we start using for loops like this well
life gets a little bit challenging because now we've got all these different values and symbols floating
around as we've seen several times throughout this course usually using a for loop like the one we have
right here is not the best way of achieving just about anything so we're going to instead use a little
trick to initialize the grid array at the end of the day that code we're about to use is 100 percent
equivalent to what we currently have but it's gonna be a lot more concise so here's what we're going
to do.
I'm gonna say that cost grid is array of three.
So this means create an empty array that has three possible places in it.
And when we create an array like this we don't get some imaginary or we don't get some actual values
initialized in there.
So the array is told that it's going to have capacity for three elements.
But right now there's no element inside there.
So if we were to run a for loop right for of loop on this or a for each it would not do anything at
all.
So we have to actually finish initializing this rate by calling Phil and then putting some default value
inside there.
So in this case to initialize this thing we can throw any old value in and I'll show you why we can
put any value in it just a moment.
Right now it's going to put in no so let me do a console log here and you'll see what we get out of
this so I've now got NULL NULL NULL.
Like so.
So we now want to replace each of those null values with another array that has false values inside
of it.
So to do so we're now going to map over this array and for each element inside of here we're going to
return an array of length 3 that has values of false inside of it.
So that's why it doesn't really matter what value we put inside of here to start.
It doesn't matter that we throw a null because we're just going to replace it right away with a mapping
statement so I'll come back here.
I got a chain on a mapping statement.
It's going to say for each element inside there.
Throw away the value of null.
We don't care about that.
Instead return a brand new array that has three elements of false.
So to do song and use a very similar statement I'll say create a new array that has length three and
fill every value inside there with false like so it's let's save this now we'll go back over and you
can see that we've got the exact structure that we're looking for.
Now you might be kind of curious why do we have the map statement here as opposed to just like throwing
in with a fill like why can't we just put in false false false like so.
Well the reason is in this case we are creating one single array and then throwing it in at every location
inside of grid.
So in memory there's only one inner array.
And if we made a change to this in array it would affect every index.
Let me show you that really quickly because it's actually a really neat little trick to do this.
You would not expect it to happen.
So here's our ray those three inner arrays are the same exact arrays in memory.
So if I do grid at zero and I push in a value of true and then I print out grid again take a look at
that it added to apparently each of these would then add it to each edit to just the one but it's the
same array memory.
So modifying one modifies all.
So that's why we can't just do a direct fill like so instead we have to do the map statement.
And when we do the map statement that's going to run the inter function three times and each time we're
going to generate a brand new and different array.
All right.
So we're going to be using this trick right here several times because at the end of the day even though
right now it might be kind of hard to read it ends up being a lot easier in the long run to understand
and also makes a lot easier to come back and adjust the different values to change the size of the array
if we ever want to add more rows to our grid.
We're going to change that value of three right there if we ever want to add more columns.
We'll change that three right there.
So imagine for a second that we would decide that we want to instead have a extra column on here like
so.
Let's say that we want to have a rectangular maze.
So we want that to be the starting point to get something like that.
We would come back here.
We would change the inner arrays to length for instead.
So now we've got or columns instead of the previous three.
So I could save this refresh.
Now I can see one two three four so like I said much more convenient way to create our nested Arrays.
All right.
So that's it for the grid.
We're going to take a pause right here.
Come back the next video we're going to tackle the verticals and horizontals arrays as well.
So a quick pause.
I'll see you in just a minute.